The demand for COVID-19 tests is soaring along with the infection rate as the omicron variant swamps Florida. Tampa Bay’s local governments reduced the number of free, public testing sites in favor of private providers before the holidays. Now they’ve opened several new sites to meet the record demand for testing. Public vs. private test sites Testing at a public site is free, whether or not you have insurance. The site may bill your insurer, however. Most do not require appointments, though walk-ups may have to wait in line. Check in advance. Private providers such as clinics, pharmacies and urgent care centers may require appointments and may treat the test as a medical appointment, adding paperwork and time to your test. They could also charge you or your insurer, so call in advance to find out the insurance and cost requirements. Wherever you get tested, bring your ID and provide your full name, address and contact information so you can receive the test results. And wear your mask. Note: Public sites could close early if they run out of tests. Check your county government’s social media accounts to see if they’re still open before heading there. How to order free at-home tests The Biden administration has launched a website, COVIDTests.gov, that allows Americans to order free COVID-19 rapid antigen tests via the mail that can be taken at home. The current limit is four at-home tests per residential address. They are set to start shipping at the end of January. If you have questions this website may answer them. Watch out for counterfeit tests Look out for scammers offering fraudulent COVID-19 home test kits and other pandemic products, officials warn. Beware of: You can report fraudulent pandemic activity to the Florida Attorney General’s Office by using myfloridalegal.com or calling 1-866-966-7226. If you have any issues with a COVID-19 testing site, contact the Agency for Health Care Administration by emailing cau@ahca.myflorida.com. Tampa Bay’s public testing sites Check in advance to see if the testing site is open during the New Year’s holiday weekend. • • • Citrus County Click here for more information about testing in Citrus. Hernando County Click here for non-public test sites in Hernando. Hillsborough County Click here for more information about testing in Hillsborough. Click here for more information about testing in the city of Tampa. Manatee County Click here for more information about testing in Manatee. Pasco County Click here for more information about testing in Pasco. Pinellas County Click here for more information about testing in Pinellas. Polk County Click here for more information about testing in Polk. Sarasota County Click here for more information about testing in Sarasota. For more information • • • How to get tested Tampa Bay: The Times can help you find the free, public COVID-19 testing sites in Citrus, Hernando, Hillsborough, Manatee, Pasco, Pinellas, Polk and Sarasota counties. Florida: The Department of Health has a website that lists testing sites in the state. Some information may be out of date. The U.S.: The Department of Health and Human Services has a website that can help you find a testing site. • • • How to get vaccinated The COVID-19 vaccine for ages 5 and up and booster shots for everyone ages 16 and up are being administered at doctors’ offices, clinics, pharmacies, grocery stores and public vaccination sites. Many allow appointments to be booked online. Here’s how to find a site near you: Find a site: Visit vaccines.gov to find vaccination sites in your zip code. More help: Call the National COVID-19 Vaccination Assistance Hotline. Phone: 800-232-0233. Help is available in English, Spanish and other languages. TTY: 888-720-7489 Disability Information and Access Line: Call 888-677-1199 or email DIAL@n4a.org. • • • Tampa Bay Times coronavirus coverage KIDS AND VACCINES: Got questions about vaccinating your kid? Here are some answers. BOOSTER SHOTS: Confused about which COVID booster to get? This guide will help. BOOSTER QUESTIONS: Are there side effects? Why do I need it? We’ve got answers. PROTECTING SENIORS: Here’s how seniors can stay safe from the virus. COVID AND THE FLU: Get a flu shot and the COVID vaccine to avoid a ‘twindemic.’ GET THE DAYSTARTER MORNING UPDATE: Sign up to receive the most up-to-date information. A TRIBUTE TO FLORIDIANS TAKEN BY THE CORONAVIRUS: They were parents and retirees, police officers and doctors, imperfect but loved deeply. HAVE A TIP?: Send us confidential news tips. We’re working hard to bring you the latest news on the coronavirus in Florida. This effort takes a lot of resources to gather and update. If you haven’t already subscribed, please consider buying a print or digital subscription.